Hello everybody and welcome to this.
Introduction to Ahmed chairs now Ahmed chairs consist of bones.
Much like our skeleton does and you can see this bone here it's this pyramid type shape with a little
ball on top will be added to the scene.
Now this is the first stage in rigging rigging is a much larger topic which involves like being a puppeteer
putting all the controls in place to move your lamp.
But in order to move your lamp we're going to have to put some bones in to begin with.
And this is the first stage of.
So let's find out how to add our first bone over in Blender okay.
So this is where we left off before our scene is set up by this now rather than playing about in our
scene and manipulating it there.
What's we're going to do is we're going to open up a new blend scene so we can just focus on the basics
of setting up and arm a chunk and discard any changes I just did there.
Okay so in our default blend scene what we need to do is first add our armature object now our armature
object consists of one or more bones and we're just going to deal with one bone at the moment and then
we'll add more later on.
So we go to our AB menu we can find armature under there.
When you add an armature you'll see just the top of the bone sticking out.
That's the tail end of the bone.
And what we can do here is make this visible no matter what we've got in front of it.
So what we do is we go over to our properties panel scroll down and go to the object data properties
or the little pitch Green Man little picture of a man jumping there and then we can scroll down here
and under viewport display there's an option to keep in front the other option I want to quickly look
at whilst we're here is the display as currently we've got it set to opt procedural.
You may want to experiment with some of his other options as well.
At the moment I like it like that because it's very easy to identify the parts of our armature.
So at the bottom here we've got the head of the bone and at the very top we've got its tail and having
it sets is OK to he drill means it's very easy to identify that visually.
Ultimately this is really important because the flow of how Bones interact especially with inverse cinematics
which we'll learn about later on they follow a motion from head to tail on each bone.
So it is important that you put things around the right way.
And if we go into edit mode we can just confirm that we can select the individual parts of our bone
or the bone itself.
And if we open up the sidebar properties we can see that we can move the head which is the bottom part.
Let's zoom out a little so we can see what's going on and the tail which is the top part individually
as well and just a reminder that we're building up the skeleton of our lamp.
Piece by piece rather than just all doing it at the end and this will give you a great understanding
because you'll be repeating the process as we go through this section and start adding more and more
to our model.
And also there will be times when you're constructing something and you need to add bone detail anyway.
So this is a workflow that's going to help you solidify the knowledge of making images.
And with that in mind it's time for your challenge.
Okay so your challenge.
If your lamp is not being constructed around the world Origin centre it's in your scene.
So mine at the moment is two or three blender units over to one side bringing it back into the middle
of the scene it's just going to help us when it comes to our construction.
So make sure it is around that center scene where X Y and Z are all zero ADD AN ARMATURE TO YOUR LAMP
MODEL but you didn't guess that one was coming.
And then finally you may find that the first bone that you've put there is too high so scale it to an
appropriate height.
You can even do that in edit mode or object mode.
Okay.
Pause the video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go hop on over into blender and add another much more to our lamp okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go over to our lamp right.
So this is where we left off before.
Now one of the things that we're going to have to bear in mind is that the lamp itself is currently
not at the origin of our scene.
That can cause us a few slowdowns in our workflow.
We know that we're going to put it back over here at some point but I think a good place to put our
lamp at the moment is going to be all the way over here.
Now assuming everything's all linked together we should just be able to move it and place it at 0 0
0.
Unfortunately that's not the case.
It's not all parents together or anything along those lines so we're going to have to move all these
pieces over here somehow.
Now we could literally just work out how far we need to move on the y axis.
So two point six basically if we moved everything by the same amount it would work.
Now I'm pretty sure that this is all linked together.
It is as unlike the other parts of our lamp.
So this here Kate we've got the bulb and that's all linked together.
Now this doesn't really matter at this point in time but it is eventually going to go but if we select
to other objects as well and for the moment parent them to hear what we can then do is just move the
location of our parents objects which is the main lamp that we'd sketched earlier right back to the
beginning.
Okay appear to have not done the base but that's a very simple change I'm also for the moments going
to tidy up my scene a little more I'm going to hide the camera out the view and then hide these lamps
out of view as well so they're just not in the scene I'll have to bring them back later when it comes
to rendering and pieces like that but we need to clean up our scene at some point anyway.
So let's go back hide that.
We don't know this part of the lamp or the fake lighting that we need for evey at the moment.
And again we can come back and delete those later on if necessary.
So we've got two objects on top of one another here.
It's very hard to distinguish between the two.
Now I need to hide the lamp based profile so I'm going to go do that in the outline.
That's the easiest place to do that.
Let's close that back up again because the first thing we're now going to need to do is not hide that.
I thought I did.
What was the profile a head looks like something else is not hidden.
There it is the lamp base original.
Perfect.
Hey we'll do some tidy up later on.
So we've got everything all lined up in the center of our scene.
Really useful to work like that because it's very easy to add things have mirror modifiers work as you
would expect them to etc..
So let's go ahead now.
We don't have our 3-D cursor in the sense of the scene.
So I think this is at 0 0 0.
If not we can just go shift s cursor to selected or cursor to the world origin and then we can add in
our first armature.
Now what I am going to do for clarity is just scale this so that it's kind of in the right place so
let's look at it from the side and we don't need to worry about where it is at the bottom.
But if we scale this only on it z axis we can squish it down so ends up in the appropriate location.
Now much like everything else we need to make sure we apply our transform signal a shift and a and apply
the scale that will not only make this bone not look so squished but we'll also just make sure that
nothing funky is going to happen later on.
Finally what I can do here is with the armature settings make sure that we can see it because we're
going to be adding to this and constructing the rest of our lab very quickly from here.
Let's go to our viewport display and in front.
Perfect and to save my work.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on looking forward to seeing your first armchairs coming together.
This is really exciting this is the first part where we start getting our lamp into a position where
we can move it's an animator and do some really cool stuff with it.
So I look forward to seeing what you've done so far.
Please share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.